---




layout: post
title: Take me to your leader
subtitle: The first phase of the alien menace
type: xcom
localimage: img/leaders.JPG
imageText: "Alien squad leaders"
---
*All my photos from now on will be taken with my Nexus 5x phone. The
quality isn't near as good as my DSLR but it will not require editing for
size and shape. Hopefully this will encourage me to create more posts as at
the moment prepping the images take too long.*

In my [last post](http://whilegaming.github.io/2016-01-28-invasion) about my xcom plan I showed my alien Greys, which at
the time were a work in progress. I recently finished painting them, so
here is a post about it.

The [pack](http://www.rebelminis.com/15algrar.html) came with 22 miniatures. 4 leader figures with capes, 8
figures with rifles and 10 with pistols. The quality is good, especially
for the price ($11). They are a little thin for 20mm which is my use but
are good for 15mm.

I decided to group them into 4 squads, 2 with pistols and 2 with rifles.
This allows for better focus for the squad with pistols acting as light
infantry and rifles as heavies.

{% include image.html image="fullsquad.JPG" content="The complete ensemble. Close up pictures to follow"%}

There is not a lot of room for colour on the miniatures as they unclothed.
So it made the most sense to me to colour the weapons to help distinguish
squads. I have always liked in the original Halo the aliens are all graded
with bright primary colours. This is a good aesthetic I think when you
can't provide real detail! So I followed the same style here.

{% include image.html image="pistols.JPG" content="A fast response squad armed with pistols."%}

I choose a midnight blue colour for the skin with blue ink wash to
highlight the muscles. Then primary colours for the capes and weapons, with
grey for the lesser details. I like a simple clean paint job as I don't
have much time to paint to paint details. I applied a final black ink wash
to highlight the weapon details.

{% include image.html image="rifles.JPG" content="The heavy hitters."%}

Originally I had wanted their eyes to be black to really make them look
alien. Unfortunately it made them look too lifeless! A quick bit of gold
paint and I think they looked much better. A final experiment with roadside
bases finished everything of. Overall I'm quite happy with the results. Now
to get them on the table!

{% include image.html image="closeup.JPG" content="Soon to be adversaries"%}

I'm preparing a couple of posts about the Skyranger so stay tuned!
