I've been struggling with my rugby boardgame idea and to take a break I finished of painting some of my minitures. This got me thinking about what wargaming rules to play with. It seems an eternal search to find the perfect wargame rules. Naturally some people like strong simulations, that focus on historical accuracy and others prepare abstract for the sake of smoother more balanced play. I can certainly appreciate both sides of the spectrum, but when playing a battle that will take hours I generally like some seblemance of balance!

This has had me thinking about what i would like in my perfect wargame. I think it would be good to list things I like and dislike in wargaming and see if something will come out of it. The most common wargame I play is Memoir 44 and its other historical variants. I think the system perfectly balances between wargame and boardgame. It also manages to deal with the imbalance of historical battles by focusing on fast play time, allowing you to play both sides in a hour slot.

What am I looking for in my wargame:

Hex based movement and LOS: This removes lots of ambigiuty in wargaming and gives the player more specific control. You know what you can and can't see, and what can and can't see you, you also control the board position better. I think the hexes could be smaller then in Memoir and with a larger board. Memoir 44 has flat terrain which some people like to replace with actual models, Warmachine is normally played with real terrain but I've seen a growing trend in using flat cloth pieces of terrain since it provides better playability for a game that requires percise placement. I think a flat hex based terrain system could be really good.

Decisions on the defender: Something I've began to really appreciate in Memoir is that the defender gets to make important decisions during attackers play. When the attacker rolls flags, its the defender that decides where their units retreat to. Its not a great position to be in, but still deciding how to retreat is as crucial a tactical decision as attacking. I think retreating is something that is under used in wargames, its often only happens in rare situations when soliders are already dying, rather then early in play as a step towards losing troops. I can see the concern that retreating could extend the game but it also makes board control more dynamic and interesting.

Attacking should have more choice: I like games with more choice for the attacker as well, always just trying to kill opponent soliders, sometime supression is an options but it rarely seems advantagious over just attacking. Having some range of choice between trying to supress enemy soliders, force them to retreat or just remove them. What is important is keeping the options balanced and if possible it provides choice to the defender. For example supression could be much easier to hit but the defender can retreat or wait it out to have no affect.

Reward use of reserves: In most wargames every turn you can use all your troops to move and shoot and movement is slow relative to the board (units would really cross in a game). This is advantagous to the person who can the more of their troops into action at the expense of keeping reserves. An alternative system could be to make it faster for troops to move up from the reserve, and make troops in the line of fighting harder to extract. 

Angles of attack and the open: Combat in the open should be very lethal compared to in cover, and getting both a front and side line of fire on the enemy should be very dangerous. The idea should be to encourage movement to victory over rolling better.
Resource Management: Memoir also does well at resource management, playing your hand well is a key part. I think play based on cards like memoir would create more opportunity for unique play. Rather then cards representing sections, cards could be ammo, movement and morale maybe. 
